>> We have all heard of
the myths and the legends
of our history.
But is there another story?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our forefathers were
Stone Age people.
Of course, they adored the sky.
They saw the little
lights up there,
but they could not
understand the little lights.
For them, it was a
mystery, and there
were different shapes of lights,
and they had different colors.
That's how astronomy started.
Humans could not understand
what was going up there.
Of course, they realized
that, throughout the years,
the situation in the
sky would change.
And then they realized
also, after one year,
it restarts again, the
same continuation up there.
So the oldest astronomy
was miraculous,
and the oldest religions,
probably, were not religions.
They adored the moon.
They could not
understand the sun.
They could not know
what is a lightning
and that it turned out
that thundering behind it.
They could not understand
how all this fits together.
But then all of a sudden,
the heavens opened,
and some beings from
outer space descended.
And these were the
first teachers.
And now the teachers taught
the humans about astronomy.
They teached them about
the connections up there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what the oldest monument
in astronomy is, nobody knows.
But one of the oldest
of them is definitively
Newgrange in Ireland.
And we still don't
understand how it is made
and what purpose it was.
But built on
Newgrange is a dolmen.
Dolmen means it is a
hill, and that the hill
was made artificially
by Stone Age people.
Now, they must have known
a lot about astronomy,
because they made a
special hole in this dolmen
in the passage way.
And only on June 21,
the sun entered exactly
in this opening in
this passageway,
and went through the
dolmen, and lighted
a stone which was in the back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And then the whole dolmen
was brilliant in light.
Light was shooting all
over like laser beams.
Now, it was done for
astronomy, because it's always
on the June 21.
Why?
We have no answer.
Who made it?
With what astronomical
knowledge?
Why did they make what they did?
There are so many questions
open which nobody knows.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Stonehenge is another mystery.
You see, according to
official archeology,
Stonehenge was constructed
in three different epochs.
The oldest one should
be about 2800 BC,
and then some 800 years later,
they made the second part.
And later again, the third part.
But in the meantime,
archaeologists
found out that Stonehenge
is, in reality, much older
than 2800 BC.
It must go far back.
We don't know how far.
Our problem is,
about Stonehenge, we
have many, many theories;
different ideas what it was.
But one thing can be
clearly demonstrated.
You see, Stonehenge is composed
of different rings of stone.
Now, these rings have
a certain distance
between one ring
and the next ring,
and these distances
of the rings are
the same as the distances of
the planets in our solar system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You see, in our solar system,
in the center, we have the sun.
The next planet
which orbits the sun
is Mercury, then comes
Venus, then comes the Earth,
then comes Mars, then Jupiter.
Between Mars and
Jupiter is a big lake.
The same situation
happened with Stonehenge,
and you can demonstrate this.
You see, there's one ring for
Mercury, one ring for Venus,
one ring for the Earth,
then one ring for Mars.
Between Mars and
Jupiter is a big lake.
And far away, out of the
rings, is the biggest stone,
called the Heel Stone.
It stands for Jupiter.
A big stone, because
Jupiter is the biggest
planet in our solar system.
So now, if this is
not coincidence,
then some teachers
must have told this
to our Stone Age people.
Because otherwise, they
could have known nothing
about the asteroid belt
between Mars and Jupiter.
You need a powerful telescope to
realize that there is something
between Mars and Jupiter.
But Stonehenge,
all the rings, they
have the same shape as the
planets in our solar system.
There are many, many
things outside of Europe.
Some years ago, for
example, I was in Colombia.
In Colombia, there
is, in the jungle,
a so-called sacred city.
The name is Buritaca.
They call it Buritaca-Doscientos
because there
are 200 small rivers.
And "doscientos" means 200.
So Buritaca-Doscientos,
they call
it the Lost City in the jungle.
And this city is composed
of several terraces,
like pyramids.
One terrace is smaller,
composed on the older ones.
And it comes up to
different forms and shapes,
and on these terraces,
some building,
not stone building,
normal houses
made out of wood and
straw were constructed.
But these houses were
orientated, again,
astronomically.
For example, there
is one house which
they call the House of the Man.
There is another
house which they
call the House of the Woman.
Now, from the House
of the Man, there
is a pillar going
up from the ceiling.
And from the House of the Woman,
there are two crossed pillars.
Now, exactly on
March 21, the sun
rises up and makes a shadow
exactly on the pillar
of the man's house, which
crosses the two, let's
say legs, of the woman.
Which means, symbolically,
it's springtime,
you have to put the
seed into the earth.
But it all works by astronomy.
They were sure that the whole
universe has to do with gods.
Of course, the natives there,
they are called the Koguis.
And the Koguis had their
teacher from heaven.
The teacher told them
the important things
about astronomy.
And not only this,
the teachers also
told them about
the coming flood.
Like in the Bible,
they told them,
you must construct a ship to be
saved before the Great Flood.
Now, in all these cases,
constructing a ship,
be it in the Bible, Noah; be it
the Kogui up there in Colombia,
which is far away from
the biblical stories,
in all these cases,
it was not just
a miraculous god who, by shake
hand or making this, here
is a ship.
So like a miracle, now,
they always used technology.
Constructing a
ship is technology,
and constructing a ship
means you need some time.
It's not the story
of the Great Flood,
but simply, somebody
told them it is coming.
They knew in advance, and at
least one year in advance,
if not more, that the
Great Flood would come.
Otherwise, you have no
time to construct a ship.
So who were these beings
who knew in advance
that the gigantic
flood would arrive?
Here again, we end
with extraterrestrials.
They had the knowledge
seen from outer space.
They knew what was coming.
They knew, for
example, it is possible
that the pole would change,
the magnetic pole would change.
They knew it in advance.
That's why they give some
of the human group time
to construct a ship.
In old Sumeria, there is
the so-called King's List.
The King's List is, today, in
the British Museum in London.
There you can read the oldest
kings before the Great Flood.
And then the flood comes,
and the King's List
says that, after the flood,
the gods descended again
from the sky to the human.
The same situation
we had in Colombia,
these Kogui, if we'd seen it
from a technical point of view,
they would be primitive.
These Kogui knew
about the Great Flood.
They constructed the ship, and
again, in the Kogui mythology,
they say after the
water disappeared,
the gods descended again from
the sky, the same situation
like in the Sumerian legend.
I have studied so many
myths and legends,
and practically
every old culture
knows about the flood,
including the Maya, for example.
Or you go to Greek mythology,
there you have Plato.
And Plato speaks about the
Great Flood which was coming.
Now, Plato had no
contact with the Maya.
The Maya were living
in Central America.
And they all have
the same stories,
because it was a Great Flood.
And all, they have
the same story, saying
that a god was coming from
the sky, was wanting them,
give them time to
construct a ship.
And after the flood, when
the water disappeared,
the gods descended
again from the sky.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Humans, some thousands
of years ago,
they were teached by
extraterrestrials.
And the extraterrestrials
told them, please
make this monument
astronomically.
Most of the dolmen,
in French Brittany,
for example, they are all
orientated astronomically.
In the beginning, they said,
well, it's just the tombstones.
So they tried to
find some graves.
They found nothing.
Then a few years ago,
for the first time,
a helicopter over flew
this megalithic place
in French Brittany.
And later, they realized that
all these stone lines were not
standing there by coincidence.
They always measured the
same distance, 2,860 meters
or exactly half of it.
It turns out that
all was composed
of different triangles,
but Pythagorean triangle.
Now, Pythagoras was a
Greek mathematician.
He was living in Greece
roughly 400 or 500 BC.
But all these stones
in French Brittany
are at least 5,000 years old.
So Pythagoras had
nothing to do with it.
All is linked with astronomy.
Here we came to the
question, of course,
our ancestors had no idea
of Pythagorean triangle.
Why have they done it?
They admired their so-called
gods, the teachers,
and they said, we want to
do something in your honor.
And the teachers said,
OK, please bring stones.
Maybe they learned them
how they could move stones
in an easier way.
And they said, but you have
to put these stones exactly
in that line we tell you.
The Stone Age people did it,
not the extraterrestrials.
We did the dirty work.
They did it, but they did not
realize that the outcome of it
were Pythagorean
triangles, or always
the same distance or
half the distance.
So why should extraterrestrials
have done this?
They knew exactly these stones
would survive for thousands
and thousands of years.
Later generations, us,
we will measure it.
We will realize this
is not coincidence.
We will realize they are
Pythagorean triangles.
And now the humans will come
up with the questions, why?
What's behind it?
And that's exactly
why they did it.
They wanted that we
start with the questions.
That's the day we have now.
We have asked the questions.
I don't know from which solar
system these extraterrestrials
have come from.
I have no idea what
technology they
used to make these
gigantic distances.
I don't know what
color they are,
how they were
exactly looking like,
but that we have some answers.
This planet was visited by
beings from outer space.
This we can prove
in the meantime.
We have too much
old holy writings,
and we have too much hard facts.
The teachers must have been
very sensitive to teach
at least some of the humans,
which they thought these
are the most intelligent ones.
And they later
became the leaders
to teach them in astronomy
and the mathematics.
Because you need
mathematics, otherwise,
you cannot do all these things.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just a few months ago,
I was in Indonesia.
And in Indonesia,
there is a place
with the name Gunung Padang.
It's in the jungle.
Nobody, practically, was there.
And archeology says this place
must be 23,000 years old.
Very, very old,
and the whole place
is composed of really
10,000 stone blocks.
They are volcanic,
of volcanic origin,
and we called them basalt.
The material is basalt.
It's very, very odd.
And we have no idea who
transported all these blocks
to that place.
Now, 23,000 years ago,
is very, very long.
There must have been teachers.
Another place, Gobekli Tepe--
Gobekli Tepe is in Turkey today.
And Gobekli Tepe is, again, one
of the very, very old places,
dated at least 11,000 BC.
And we have no reason why
somebody made some stone
structures in Gobekli Tepe.
I have a speculation why,
because today, Gobekli Tepe
is very near.
It's about 10 kilometers
away from the place
where our progenitor,
Abraham, was living.
And Abraham, again, was writing
about extraterrestrials.
There is an old text called
the "Abraham Apocryphic,"
and there Abraham, he says he
was sitting outside his tent.
Then he heard a
noise in the sky.
Some beings descended
from the sky,
and he clearly says,
they were not human,
that these beings tell to our
father, Abraham, if you wish,
we take you out of your planet.
You can see your
planet from upside.
And Abraham says yes,
and they go up there.
Of course, he
understands nothing.
Finally, he's coming to
a gigantic place which
is turning always
around its own axis
in the orbit of our planet.
And Abraham says, but I wish
to fall downward to the Earth.
If someone wishes to
fall downward the Earth,
that means he
cannot be on Earth.
And then he says, the
high place on which
we stood, once he turned always
upside down and upside down.
All of a sudden, I saw the Earth
up and I saw the stars down.
Soon, as you are in
the mother spaceship,
this mother
spaceship will always
turn around its
own axis, because
by doing so, you create
an artificial gravity
centrifugal force.
But Abraham could
not have known this.
Abraham was brought up there.
All what we have made, we
translated it completely wrong.
We said Abraham was in heaven.
I'm sorry.
Heaven was space
and nothing else.
All this is important to know.
So many of our ancestors were
brought into the heavens.
And when I was a boy in school,
educated in Switzerland,
they told me, if you are a brave
man, Erich, if you kill nobody,
if you don't tell lies, if
you are honest to everyone,
then finally, when you die,
you will come to Heaven.
Heaven is the place
of absolute happiness,
because in Heaven, we
are united with God.
But later, as an adult, when
I learned Greek and Latin,
I learned that
Heaven was a place
in which fights were going on.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Even in our region, there
was a so-called Archangel
whose name was Lucifer.
And Lucifer, one day,
with his disciples,
came to the throne of the
Almighty God and said,
we do not serve you anymore.
And then the Almighty God
asked for the Archangel Michael
to destroy Lucifer, to
throw him out of Heaven.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So if Heaven would be the
place of absolute happiness,
then an opposition, a war,
is impossible in Heaven.
Which means we have to translate
the word "heaven" into "space."
And most of our human mythology
starts with a war in Heaven.
Not only in this
case, Lucifer in
the Jewish Christian tradition,
but also in many other myths.
For example, in the
Greek mythology,
we have the God father, Zeus.
Before he comes to
our solar system,
he had to fight in
Heaven against Cronus.
It always starts like this.
Now, coming back
to Gobekli Tepe,
Gobekli Tepe is just
about 10 kilometers away
where Abraham had
his stories, when
he was brought up to the sky.
So I suggest, maybe in honor
of these beings who brought him
up, they created this
gigantic place, Gobekli Tepe.
But that's just one
of the speculations.
We just today know
that, of course,
the three pyramids are, again,
orientated astronomically.
And the three pyramids,
according to modern theories,
they represent the
belt of the star Orion.
Now, the oldest God
in Egypt was Osiris,
but Osiris and Orion is the
same thing even in the writing
form in the hieroglyphs.
In my opinion,
ancient structures
were made by humans, not
by the extraterrestrials.
But it was the
extraterrestrials who
guided them, who teached them,
who gave them the knowledge how
to do it.
But all the dirty
job, we did it.
And why have they done it?
Simply for us.
The extraterrestrials,
they knew, of course,
that these gigantic
stone monuments
would survive for thousands
and thousands of years.
So in the far future,
humans will see these stone
structures, and they will
ask the same questions
as we asked today.
How is this possible?
Why have they made such an
effort simply for astronomy,
searching for big stones,
moving stones around?
And then they asked the same
questions which we ask now.
Why have our
ancestors done this?
For what purpose?
That's all that
you have to know,
because this brings
you to questions.
And what we need for solutions
are first the questions.
That's exactly what
we leave today.
We have the questions because
of these gigantic structures.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Were there
extraterrestrial teachers?
My answer is yes.
Of course, there were
extraterrestrials.
Because in my profession, I do
not have only stone structures.
I know, of course,
the world mythology.
I know the relations.
I know the old holy books.
So when you put it all
together, no way out,
this planet, our
Stone Age people,
were visited by beings
from outer space.
They were the
teachers in astronomy,
and for them, our ancestors
made these gigantic stone
structures.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[MUSIC PLAYING]